If you try to run
a large transformer
on the long sequence,
you just run out of memory.
In this video, you'll
understand why,
and identify the two main parts
responsible for
that. Let's dive in.
Transformers can get big,
and that introduces a lot
of engineering challenges.
So let me show you what I mean.
Attention on a
sequence of length L,
takes L squared time and memory.
For example, if you're doing
attention on two
sentences of length L,
you need to compare each word in
the first sentence to each
word in the second sentence,
which is L times L
comparisons or L squared.
If you have N layers
of attention,
then it takes N times
as much memory.
GPT-3, for example,
already has 96 layers,
and new models will have more,
even modern GPUs can
struggle with this kind
of dimensionality.
For example, if L equals 100,
then L squared equals 10,000.
If L equals 10,000,
then L squared equals
a 100,000,000,
which at 10,000,000
operations per
second is already taking
10 seconds to compute.
Recall attention is softmax
of Q times K transpose times V,
where Q is the query,
K the key, and V, the value.
Q, K and V are all of
dimension L by d_model,
where L is the length
of the sequence,
and d_model is the
depth of attention.
So Q times K transpose will
be L by L or L squared.
However, when you are
handling long sequences,
you usually don't need to
consider all L positions.
You can just focus on an
area of interest instead.
For example, when translating
a long text from
English to German,
you don't need to consider
every word at once.
You can instead focus on a
single word being translated,
and those immediately around
it, by using attention.
The more layers a model has,
the more memory it needs.
This is because you need to store
the forward pass
activations for backprop.
You can overcome this
memory requirements
by recomputing activations,
but it needs to be done
efficiently to minimize
taking too much extra time.
GPT-3 for example, which
already has 96 layers,
would take a very long time
to recompute activations,
and these models will
continue to get bigger.
So what you need is
a way to speed up
this re-computation,
so that it's efficient to use
less memory and I'll show
you how to do that next.
Now you understand
the two main parts
that contribute to
transform our complexity.
In the next video,
I'll show you how to improve
them so you can make
transformer run on
really long sequences.
Let's go to the next video.